---
title: 40-Days of Devotions with My Church Family
---

# Introduction

**1 Corinthians 15:3--4**

> For I delivered to you as of first importance
> what I also received: that Christ died for our
> sins in accordance with the Scriptures,
> that he was buried, that he was raised on
> the third day in accordance with the Scriptures,

## Acknowledgements

The daily readings include excerpts from sermons, commentaries, hymns,
the book: [The Valley of Vision]{.underline}, by The Banner of Truth
Trust, as well as thoughts, comments, and prayers by Pastor Jeff.

This devotional is intended to help us direct our minds towards the
great redemptive act of Jesus Christ at the cross, in His resurrection
from the grave, and His ascension.

The first eleven days we will read through the final days of Jesus
Christ on earth. This begins with Thursday evening in the Garden of
Gethsemane where He was betrayed, and ends when He ascends upward to
heaven. The account is from the Gospel of Matthew.

Each day's devotion contains a short prayer drawn from the scripture
and/or the quote that coincides with the scripture for that day.

The Bible translation is from the English Standard Version. It is
possible that within some quotes, another translation may be used by the
author.

May the soul of the reader be encouraged by the truth on each page. May
the soul find itself captured by the beauty and power of the greatest
act of God towards man. That is, to redeem sinful man back to Himself.

May Jesus Christ be honored and glorified in this work, now and forever
more. Amen.

Pastor Jeff


# March 1^st^ 

**Jesus Prays in Gethsemane**

**Matthew 26**

~36~ Then Jesus went with them to a place called Gethsemane, and he said
to his disciples, "Sit here, while I go over there and pray." ~37~ And
taking with him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, he began to be
sorrowful and troubled. ~38~ Then he said to them, "My soul is very
sorrowful, even to death; remain here, and watch with me." ~39~ And
going a little farther he fell on his face and prayed, saying, "My
Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me; nevertheless, not
as I will, but as you will." ~40~ And he came to the disciples and found
them sleeping. And he said to Peter, "So, could you not watch with me
one hour? ~41~ Watch and pray that you may not enter into temptation.
The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak." ~42~ Again, for
the second time, he went away and prayed, "My Father, if this cannot
pass unless I drink it, your will be done." ~43~ And again he came and
found them sleeping, for their eyes were heavy. ~44~ So, leaving them
again, he went away and prayed for the third time, saying the same words
again. ~45~ Then he came to the disciples and said to them, "Sleep and
take your rest later on. See, the hour is at hand, and the Son of Man is
betrayed into the hands of sinners. ~46~ Rise, let us be going; see, my
betrayer is at hand."

## Prayer

*"Jesus, My Savior, forgive me for my neglect of prayer. I have failed
to take Your warning to heart. I have failed to believe in the need to
pray. I have failed to watch and pray. Stir my soul unto thee. Remind me
of the necessity to pray. Amen!"*

#  March 2^nd^ 

**Betrayal and Arrest of Jesus**

**Matthew 26**

~47 ~While he was still speaking, Judas came, one of the twelve, and
with him a great crowd with swords and clubs, from the chief priests and
the elders of the people. ~48~ Now the betrayer had given them a sign,
saying, "The one I will kiss is the man; seize him." ~49~ And he came up
to Jesus at once and said, "Greetings, Rabbi!" And he kissed him.
~50~ Jesus said to him, "Friend, do what you came to do." Then they came
up and laid hands on Jesus and seized him. ~51~ And behold, one of those
who were with Jesus stretched out his hand and drew his sword and struck
the servant of the high priest and cut off his ear. ~52 ~Then Jesus said
to him, "Put your sword back into its place. For all who take the sword
will perish by the sword. ~53 ~Do you think that I cannot appeal to my
Father, and he will at once send me more than twelve legions of angels?
~54~ But how then should the Scriptures be fulfilled, that it must be
so?" ~55~ At that hour Jesus said to the crowds, "Have you come out as
against a robber, with swords and clubs to capture me? Day after day I
sat in the temple teaching, and you did not seize me. ~56~ But all this
has taken place that the Scriptures of the prophets might be fulfilled."
Then all the disciples left him and fled.

## Prayer

*"Father God, I can relate to Judas, who betrayed the Son of Man. I have
repeated this sin over and over. Thank you for Your complete
forgiveness. I can relate to the soldiers who came to miss treat Him. I
am guilty. I know that You have forgiven me, and there is no guilt upon
me. Lead me to stand for You and for the truth of the cross. Amen !"*

# March 3^rd^ 

**Jesus Before Caiaphas and the Council**

**Matthew 26**

~57~ Then those who had seized Jesus led him to Caiaphas the high
priest, where the scribes and the elders had gathered. ~58 ~And Peter
was following him at a distance, as far as the courtyard of the high
priest, and going inside he sat with the guards to see the end. ~59~ Now
the chief priests and the whole council were seeking false testimony
against Jesus that they might put him to death, ~60 ~but they found
none, though many false witnesses came forward. At last two came forward
~61 ~and said, "This man said, 'I am able to destroy the temple of God,
and to rebuild it in three days.' " ~62~ And the high priest stood up
and said, "Have you no answer to make? What is it that these men testify
against you?" ~63~ But Jesus remained silent. And the high priest said
to him, "I adjure you by the living God, tell us if you are the Christ,
the Son of God." ~64~ Jesus said to him, "You have said so. But I tell
you, from now on you will see the Son of Man seated at the right hand of
Power and coming on the clouds of heaven." ~65~ Then the high priest
tore his robes and said, "He has uttered blasphemy. What further
witnesses do we need? You have now heard his blasphemy. ~66 ~What is
your judgment?" They answered, "He deserves death." ~67~ Then they spit
in his face and struck him. And some slapped him, ~68~ saying, "Prophesy
to us, you Christ! Who is it that struck you?"

## Prayer

*"Heavenly Father, Jesus fulfilled the prophesy in Isaiah 53:7. Like a
lamb that is led to the slaughter, He opened not His mouth. He took all
of this to reconcile us to You. Hallelujah!"*

# March 4^th^

**Peter Denies Jesus**

**Matthew 26**

~69~ Now Peter was sitting outside in the courtyard. And a servant girl
came up to him and said, "You also were with Jesus the Galilean."
~70~ But he denied it before them all, saying, "I do not know what you
mean." ~71~ And when he went out to the entrance, another servant girl
saw him, and she said to the bystanders, "This man was with Jesus of
Nazareth." ~72~ And again he denied it with an oath: "I do not know the
man." ~73~ After a little while the bystanders came up and said to
Peter, "Certainly you too are one of them, for your accent betrays you."
~74~ Then he began to invoke a curse on himself and to swear, "I do not
know the man." And immediately the rooster crowed. ~75 ~And Peter
remembered the saying of Jesus, "Before the rooster crows, you will deny
me three times." And he went out and wept bitterly.

**Jesus Delivered to Pilate**

**Matthew 27**

~1~ When morning came, all the chief priests and the elders of the
people took counsel against Jesus to put him to death. ~2 ~And they
bound him and led him away and delivered him over to Pilate the
governor.

## Prayer

*"Heavenly Father, thank You for Jesus' once forever sacrifice. This
includes all the times that I denied Him in my words, actions, and when
I failed to obey Him as I ought. Such love and forgiveness make me seek
and love Him more and more. In my weaknesses, I can always run to You.
Amen."*

# March 5^th^

**Judas Hangs Himself**

**Matthew 27**

~3 ~Then when Judas, his betrayer, saw that Jesus was condemned, he
changed his mind and brought back the thirty pieces of silver to the
chief priests and the elders, ~4~ saying, "I have sinned by betraying
innocent blood." They said, "What is that to us? See to it yourself."
~5 ~And throwing down the pieces of silver into the temple, he departed,
and he went and hanged himself. ~6~ But the chief priests, taking the
pieces of silver, said, "It is not lawful to put them into the treasury,
since it is blood money." ~7~ So they took counsel and bought with them
the potter's field as a burial place for strangers. ~8~ Therefore that
field has been called the Field of Blood to this day. ~9~ Then was
fulfilled what had been spoken by the prophet Jeremiah, saying, "And
they took the thirty pieces of silver, the price of him on whom a price
had been set by some of the sons of Israel, ~10~ and they gave them for
the potter's field, as the Lord directed me."

## Prayer

*"Oh God, how dreadful is Judas' ending. And also the actions of the
chief priests who were full of hate and jealousy towards Christ Jesus. I
know that this was Your eternal plan before the foundations of the
world. And these men fulfilled their own lusts while fulfilling Your
predetermined plan. Though man thought he was in control, You were
carrying out the great redemptive plan, as promised all the way back in
Genesis 3. I am always amazed at Your providence and provision for
eternal life for those You love. Great is our God! Amen."*

# March 6^th^

**Jesus Before Pilate**

**Matthew 27**

~11~ Now Jesus stood before the governor, and the governor asked him,
"Are you the King of the Jews?" Jesus said, "You have said so." ~12~ But
when he was accused by the chief priests and elders, he gave no answer.
~13 ~Then Pilate said to him, "Do you not hear how many things they
testify against you?" ~14~ But he gave him no answer, not even to a
single charge, so that the governor was greatly amazed.

**The Crowd Chooses Barabbas**

~15~ Now at the feast the governor was accustomed to release for the
crowd any one prisoner whom they wanted. ~16 ~And they had then a
notorious prisoner called Barabbas. ~17~ So when they had gathered,
Pilate said to them, "Whom do you want me to release for you: Barabbas,
or Jesus who is called Christ?" ~18~ For he knew that it was out of envy
that they had delivered him up. ~19~ Besides, while he was sitting on
the judgment seat, his wife sent word to him, "Have nothing to do with
that righteous man, for I have suffered much because of him today in a
dream." ~20~ Now the chief priests and the elders persuaded the crowd to
ask for Barabbas and destroy Jesus. ~21~ The governor again said to
them, "Which of the two do you want me to release for you?" And they
said, "Barabbas." ~22~ Pilate said to them, "Then what shall I do with
Jesus who is called Christ?" They all said, "Let him be crucified!"
~23~ And he said, "Why? What evil has he done?" But they shouted all the
more, "Let him be crucified!"

# March 7^th^

**Pilate Delivers Jesus to Be Crucified**

**Matthew 27**

~24~ So when Pilate saw that he was gaining nothing, but rather that a
riot was beginning, he took water and washed his hands before the crowd,
saying, "I am innocent of this man's blood; see to it yourselves."
~25~ And all the people answered, "His blood be on us and on our
children!" ~26~ Then he released for them Barabbas, and having scourged
Jesus, delivered him to be crucified.

**Jesus Is Mocked**

~27~ Then the soldiers of the governor took Jesus into the governor's
headquarters, and they gathered the whole battalion before him. ~28~ And
they stripped him and put a scarlet robe on him, ~29~ and twisting
together a crown of thorns, they put it on his head and put a reed in
his right hand. And kneeling before him, they mocked him, saying, "Hail,
King of the Jews!" ~30~ And they spit on him and took the reed and
struck him on the head. ~31~ And when they had mocked him, they stripped
him of the robe and put his own clothes on him and led him away to
crucify him.

## Prayer

*"Heavenly Father, when I read and see this treatment of my Savior, my
heart is weighed down, greatly filled with sorrow. But then I remember
that this was the plan and it was being carried out exactly as it had to
be. This was what Jesus wanted. This was the unfolding plan of
redemption for us. My sorrow is turned to joy. Praise and thanksgiving
fill my mind and mouth. Thank you, Jesus, for all that you went through
for us, Your beloved ones. Amen."*

# March 8^th^

**The Crucifixion**

**Matthew 27**

~32~ As they went out, they found a man of Cyrene, Simon by name. They
compelled this man to carry his cross. ~33 ~And when they came to a
place called Golgotha (which means Place of a Skull), ~34 ~they offered
him wine to drink, mixed with gall, but when he tasted it, he would not
drink it. ~35~ And when they had crucified him, they divided his
garments among them by casting lots. ~36~ Then they sat down and kept
watch over him there. ~37 ~And over his head they put the charge against
him, which read, "This is Jesus, the King of the Jews." ~38 ~Then two
robbers were crucified with him, one on the right and one on the left.
~39~ And those who passed by derided him, wagging their heads ~40~ and
saying, "You who would destroy the temple and rebuild it in three days,
save yourself! If you are the Son of God, come down from the cross."
~41 ~So also the chief priests, with the scribes and elders, mocked him,
saying, ~42~ "He saved others; he cannot save himself. He is the King of
Israel; let him come down now from the cross, and we will believe in
him. ~43~ He trusts in God; let God deliver him now, if he desires him.
For he said, 'I am the Son of God.' " ~44~ And the robbers who were
crucified with him also reviled him in the same way.

## Prayer

*"Jesus Christ, Eternal Son, Savior, and King of Glory! You came and
were fixed on the eternal purpose. You endured such mockery, ridicule,
and pain yet You did not sin. Perfect and sinless, even going through
all of this; no other could, and no other would. Blessed be Your name
forever!"*

# March 9^th^

**The Death of Jesus**

**Matthew 27**

~45~ Now from the sixth hour there was darkness over all the land until
the ninth hour. ~46~ And about the ninth hour Jesus cried out with a
loud voice, saying, "Eli, Eli, lema sabachthani?" that is, "My God, my
God, why have you forsaken me?" ~47~ And some of the bystanders, hearing
it, said, "This man is calling Elijah." ~48~ And one of them at once ran
and took a sponge, filled it with sour wine, and put it on a reed and
gave it to him to drink. ~49~ But the others said, "Wait, let us see
whether Elijah will come to save him." ~50~ And Jesus cried out again
with a loud voice and yielded up his spirit.

~51~ And behold, the curtain of the temple was torn in two, from top to
bottom. And the earth shook, and the rocks were split. ~52 ~The tombs
also were opened. And many bodies of the saints who had fallen asleep
were raised, ~53~ and coming out of the tombs after his resurrection
they went into the holy city and appeared to many. ~54~ When the
centurion and those who were with him, keeping watch over Jesus, saw the
earthquake and what took place, they were filled with awe and said,
"Truly this was the Son of God!"

~55 ~There were also many women there, looking on from a distance, who
had followed Jesus from Galilee, ministering to him, ~56 ~among whom
were Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of James and Joseph and the
mother of the sons of Zebedee.

# March 10^th^

**Jesus Is Buried**

**Matthew 27**

~57~ When it was evening, there came a rich man from Arimathea, named
Joseph, who also was a disciple of Jesus. ~58~ He went to Pilate and
asked for the body of Jesus. Then Pilate ordered it to be given to him.
~59~ And Joseph took the body and wrapped it in a clean linen shroud
~60 ~and laid it in his own new tomb, which he had cut in the rock. And
he rolled a great stone to the entrance of the tomb and went away.
~61~ Mary Magdalene and the other Mary were there, sitting opposite the
tomb.

**The Guard at the Tomb**

~62~ The next day, that is, after the day of Preparation, the chief
priests and the Pharisees gathered before Pilate ~63~ and said, "Sir, we
remember how that impostor said, while he was still alive, 'After three
days I will rise.' ~64~ Therefore order the tomb to be made secure until
the third day, lest his disciples go and steal him away and tell the
people, 'He has risen from the dead,' and the last fraud will be worse
than the first." ~65~ Pilate said to them, "You have a guard of
soldiers. Go, make it as secure as you can." ~66 ~So they went and made
the tomb secure by sealing the stone and setting a guard.

## Prayer

*"Hallelujah, YOU ARE the living Savior. You were dead and yet You live!
Hallelujah! Victory is Yours! No one and nothing could hold You in the
grave. The devil could not stop You on the cross, nor could he keep You
in the grave. A stone to hold You; to stop the God who made the stone?
You are God, my God!"*

# March 11^th^

**The Resurrection**

**Matthew 28**

~1~ Now after the Sabbath, toward the dawn of the first day of the week,
Mary Magdalene and the other Mary went to see the tomb. ~2~ And behold,
there was a great earthquake, for an angel of the Lord descended from
heaven and came and rolled back the stone and sat on it. ~3~ His
appearance was like lightning, and his clothing white as snow. ~4~ And
for fear of him the guards trembled and became like dead men. ~5~ But
the angel said to the women, "Do not be afraid, for I know that you seek
Jesus who was crucified. ~6~ He is not here, for he has risen, as he
said. Come, see the place where he lay. ~7 ~Then go quickly and tell his
disciples that he has risen from the dead, and behold, he is going
before you to Galilee; there you will see him. See, I have told you."
~8~ So they departed quickly from the tomb with fear and great joy, and
ran to tell his disciples. ~9 ~And behold, Jesus met them and said,
"Greetings!" And they came up and took hold of his feet and worshiped
him. ~10~ Then Jesus said to them, "Do not be afraid; go and tell my
brothers to go to Galilee, and there they will see me."

## Prayer

*"Heavenly Father, forever I will offer thanksgiving for revealing to me
the resurrected Savior. Help me not to take that gracious act of
revelation for granted. You have opened the eyes of my heart and I see
Him. And He has drawn me to Himself to know Him, and to know what He has
done for me. Praise and thanksgiving to You forevermore. Amen!"*

# March 12^th^

**The Report of the Guard**

**Matthew 28**

~11 ~While they were going, behold, some of the guard went into the city
and told the chief priests all that had taken place. ~12~ And when they
had assembled with the elders and taken counsel, they gave a sufficient
sum of money to the soldiers ~13 ~and said, "Tell people, 'His disciples
came by night and stole him away while we were asleep.' ~14~ And if this
comes to the governor's ears, we will satisfy him and keep you out of
trouble." ~15~ So they took the money and did as they were directed. And
this story has been spread among the Jews to this day.

**The Great Commission**

~16~ Now the eleven disciples went to Galilee, to the mountain to which
Jesus had directed them. ~17~ And when they saw him they worshiped him,
but some doubted. ~18~ And Jesus came and said to them, "All authority
in heaven and on earth has been given to me. ~19~ Go therefore and make
disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and
of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, ~20~ teaching them to observe all
that I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you always, to the end
of the age."

## Prayer

*"Hallelujah, Hallelujah! Your enemies, O' Lord, tried to hide Your
resurrection over death and the grave, but they could not. The world can
deny it, they can lie about it, they can do all that they can against
You, but YOU ARE the living Savior. With Your life, help us to take the
Gospel to the harvest fields. Prepare us and send us to make disciples
for You. Amen."*

# March 13^th^ 

***John 19:25--27** --- but standing by the cross of Jesus were his
mother and his mother's sister, Mary the wife of Clopas, and Mary
Magdalene. ~26~ When Jesus saw his mother and the disciple whom he loved
standing nearby, he said to his mother, "Woman, behold, your son!" ~27~
Then he said to the disciple, "Behold, your mother!" And from that hour
the disciple took her to his own home.*

When I read the verses above, I must stop, as if held in the same
bewilderment as those mentioned. I can see these women with the disciple
John on that hill. I can see them standing, gazing, almost in unbelief
that this is happening. I can imagine that the smallest details of those
hours were engraved in their memories. The sights, yes, but also the
sounds---every sound, and the smells, and the wind blowing in their
faces. The hate-filled scoffing from the religious rulers piercing their
hearts. Perhaps the callousness of the Roman soldiers in the treatment
of their victims stirred anger or more heartbreak. Could any of those
impressions ever diminish in their minds? All of it must have played
over and over a million times that night as they tried in vain to sleep.
But when they met the risen Savior, the memories of every detail of that
day, which had been wrapped in death, agonizing pain, and sorrow were
reborn with joy inexpressible. The memories remained, but they were
changed. Hopelessness to hope; death to life; sorrow to joy; fear to
faith. He is alive! \[Pastor Jeff Beard\]

## Prayer

*"O Father God, by Thy Spirit, help me to gaze into the resurrection of
Christ and see with the eyes of victory over sorrow, fear, and even
death. Help me to see this life differently, with hope and confidence in
Christ. Amen."*

#  March 14^th^ 

***Galatians 6:14** --- But far be it from me to boast except in the
cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, by which the world has been crucified to
me, and I to the world.*

*"When I survey the wondrous cross on which the Prince of Glory died, my
richest gain I count but loss, and pour contempt on all my pride.*

*Forbid it, Lord, that I should boast, save in the death of Christ, my
God; all the vain things that charm me most---I sacrifice them to His
blood.*

*See, from His head, His hands, His feet, sorrow and love flow mingled
down; did e'er such love and sorrow meet, or thorns compose so rich a
crown?*

*Were the whole realm of nature mine, that were a present far too small:
Love so amazing, so divine, demands my soul, my life, my all."* \[Isaac
Watts (1674--1748)\]

Many consider 'When I Survey' to be the finest hymn text written by
Isaac Watts. In fact, Charles Wesley is said to have thought it was
better than any of his own hymn texts. Watts composed this hymn from his
meditation on Galatians 6:14. Originally this had the subtitle,
\"Crucifixion to the World, by the Cross of Christ.

Go ahead and survey the majesty and power of Christ's victory on the
cross! Respond to Watt's cry for total commitment to Christ-"my soul, my
life, my all!" The theology in this small hymn should cause our souls to
thirst for worship songs drenched in sound doctrine. \[Pastor Jeff
Beard\]

## Prayer

*"My soul cries to live crucified to the wickedness of this world. I
long to see You and to worship You with a pure heart."*

#  March 15^th^

***Acts 5:29--32** --- But Peter and the apostles answered, "We must
obey God rather than men. ~30~ The God of our fathers raised Jesus, whom
you killed by hanging him on a tree. ~31~ God exalted him at his right
hand as Leader and Savior, to give repentance to Israel and forgiveness
of sins. ~32~ And we are witnesses to these things, and so is the Holy
Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey him."*

"The apostles were on trial, having been arrested for preaching the
Gospel, and Peter was explaining why they must continue to preach. Why
did they speak as they did? Their lives were in jeopardy because their
adversaries had authority---they were the great Sanhedrin, the highest
court in the land. Those leaders were well connected to King Herod, well
connected to the Roman governor. And here were these simple
apostles---fishermen, artisans, 'unlearned and ignorant men' (Acts
4:13)---daring to defy them and refusing to keep silent.

"The apostles said, 'We are his witnesses to these things.' Moreover,
they were filled with a new life, with a new courage. Their lives had
been revolutionized. They were entirely different people, filled with a
joy and a happiness and peace that nothing could remove from them. They
had the witness to this change that God had brought about in their
lives, and nothing could silence them. \[Dr. Martyn Lloyd-Jones
(1899-1981)\]

## Prayer

*"Grant Your saints this boldness and confidence in Thee that we would
never be ashamed of the God who saves. O Spirit of the Resurrected
Savior, rise up within us so that we would never fear man, but always do
Your will. Amen."*

# March 16^th^ 

***Acts 2:23--24** --- this Jesus, delivered up according to the
definite plan and foreknowledge of God, you crucified and killed by the
hands of lawless men. ~24~ God raised him up, loosing the pangs of
death, because it was not possible for him to be held by it.*

On the Day of Pentecost, shortly after Jesus had ascended to heaven,
Peter stood up before thousands and preached the Gospel of Salvation. To
those listening he proclaimed, "you crucified and killed" this Jesus.
You and I were not physically in the crowd shouting, "Crucify him,
Crucify him." We did not order his scrouging and death. Our hands did
not physically draw the hammer down on the nails and lifted the cross
with him nailed to it, but our hearts did.

Peter is preaching this same sermon to us today. Jesus came because we
were guilty of sin and our long list of wickedness includes the murder
of Jesus Christ on the cross. When a person's heart is turned away from
Jesus and refuses to obey Him, he is guilty. When we want him away from
us, to leave us alone, we have crucified Him in our hearts. Thankfully,
the Spirit of God turned our hearts towards Jesus and we found full and
complete forgiveness. Our wicked hearts nailed him there, and our wicked
hearts were the reason He came from heaven to be nailed there. Our
wicked hearts have been cleansed by the One we once hated. What a
miracle worked into our hearts! \[Pastor Jeff Beard\]

## Prayer

*"O Father God, by Thy Spirit, help me to realize in the depth of my
soul that it was my sin that put Jesus Christ on that cross. And it was
His love for me that could not keep Him away from that cross. Christ!
Christ! I need you! Amen."*

# March 17^th^ 

> ***1 Corinthians 15:3--4** --- For I delivered to you as of first
> importance what I also received: that Christ died for our sins in
> accordance with the Scriptures, ~4~ that he was buried, that he was
> raised on the third day in accordance with the Scriptures,*

Skeptics may ask, "Why should our forgiveness depend on Christ's death?
Why does God not simply forgive us, without the necessity of the cross?"

John Stott gives two answers. "The first was supplied by Archbishop
Anselm at the end of the eleventh century. If anybody imagines, he
wrote, that God can simply forgive us as we forgive others, that person
has 'not yet considered the seriousness of sin,' or literally 'what a
heavy weight sin is.' The second answer might be expressed similarly:
'You have not yet considered the majesty of God.' It is when our
perception of God and man, or of holiness and sin, are askew then our
understanding of the atonement is bound to be askew also."

Stott continues, "The crucial question we should ask, therefore, is a
different one. It is not why God finds it difficult to forgive, but how
he finds it possible to do so at all. As Emil Brunner put it,
'Forgiveness is the very opposite of anything which can be taken for
granted. Nothing is less obvious than forgiveness.' Or, in the words of
Carnegie Simpson, 'forgiveness is to man the plainest of duties; to God
it is the profoundest of problems.' \[John R. W. Stott (1921-2011)\]

## Prayer

*"Help me, I plead, to see the vileness of sin. Help me to see the
magnitude and impossible cleansing of my sin that was accomplished by
Jesus Christ. Help me, Lord, I want to know."*

# March 18^th^ 

***1 Peter 2:21** --- For to this you have been called, because Christ
also suffered for you, leaving you an example, so that you might follow
in his steps.*

"Death by crucifixion was one of the worst forms of dying. No Roman
citizen was ever crucified; this horrible death was reserved only for
Rome's enemies. The Roman scourge was a most dreadful instrument of
torture and suffering. It was made of sinews of oxen, and sharp bones
were inter-twisted among the sinews so that every time the lash came
down upon a body, these pieces of bone inflicted fearful lacerations and
literally tore off chunks of flesh from the person's bones. This is what
Christ endured in accomplishing our redemption. But the physical
suffering was not the worst. Rather, the weight of human sin and the
separation from God the Father because of His wrath against sin were the
real causes of the Savior's death.

"But simply knowing about Christ's suffering and death is not enough. We
must personally appropriate this to our own lives. We must say, 'It was
for me!' We must allow the Holy Spirit to do in us subjectively all that
Christ has done for us objectively. Then, after we have experienced this
redemptive work in our own lives, we must humbly, lovingly, and
thoughtfully 'follow in His steps' and seek to restore others. \[Kenneth
W. Osbeck (1924-2017)\]

## Prayer

*"Heavenly Father, by Your power that works within us, help us to live
out our faith. Teach us how to put into practice what we learn from Your
word. May Your word be alive and active in us that Your word is seen and
heard by those around us. To the glory of Christ. Amen."*

# March 19^th^ 

***John 19:16--18** --- So he \[Pilate\] delivered him over to them to
be crucified. So they took Jesus, ~17~ and he went out, bearing his own
cross, to the place called The Place of a Skull, which in Aramaic is
called Golgotha. ~18~ There they crucified him, and with him two others,
one on either side, and Jesus between them.*

The following is an excerpt from a prayer from the book, [The Valley of
Vision]{.underline}, from The Banner of Truth Trust.

"Blessed Lord Jesus,

Before thy cross I kneel and see the heinousness of my sin, my iniquity
that caused thee to be 'made a curse,' the evil that excites the
severity of divine wrath.

Show me the enormity of my guilt by the crown of thorns, the pierced
hands and feet, the bruised body, the dying cries.

The blood is the blood of incarnate God, its worth infinite, its value
beyond all thought. Infinite must be the evil and guilt that demands
such a price.

Sinner that I am, why should the sun give me light, the air supply
breath, the earth bears my tread, its fruits nourish me, its creatures
subserve my ends?

Yet thy compassions yearn over me, thy heart hastens to my rescue, thy
love endured my curse, they mercy bore my deserved stripes.

Let me walk humbly in the lowest depths of humiliation, bathed in thy
blood, tender of conscience, triumphing gloriously as an heir of
salvation."

# March 20^th^ 

***Galatians 2:20** --- I have been crucified with Christ. It is no
longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live
in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave
himself for me.*

"For the same New Testament that contains Paul's flash of individualism
'I have been crucified with Christ.... I live by faith in the Son of
God, who loved me and gave himself for me' (Gal 2:20), also insists that
Jesus Christ 'gave himself for us to redeem us from all wickedness and
to purify for himself a people that are his very own, eager to do what
is good' (Tit 2:14; Acts 2:40--41). Thus, the very purpose of his
self-giving on the cross was not just to save isolated individuals, and
so perpetuate their loneliness, but to create a new community whose
members would belong to him, love one another, and eagerly serve the
world.

This community of Christ would be nothing less than a renewed and
reunited humanity, of which he, as the second Adam, would be head. It
would incorporate Jews and Gentiles on equal terms. In fact, it would
include representatives from every nation. Christ died in abject
aloneness, rejected by his own nation, and deserted by his own
disciples, but lifted up on the cross he would draw all people to
himself. And from the Day of Pentecost onward it has been clear that
conversion to Christ means also conversion to the community of Christ,
as people turn from themselves to him, and from 'this corrupt
generation' to the alternative society which he is gathering around
himself." \[John R. W. Stott (1921-2011)\]

## Prayer

*"Father, You have made me new in Christ and transferred me into a new
family and community. Blessed be Your Name."*

# March 21^st^ 

***Luke 24:6** --- He is not here, but has risen. Remember how he told
you, while he was still in Galilee,*

"At the heart of Christianity is a cross; and one of the most
significant things about it is that it is an empty cross. Christians
down the ages have been sure that his shameful death on those gallows
was not the last word about Jesus. He rose from the tomb, and triumphed
over death.

This was the belief that turned heartbroken followers of a crucified
rabbi into the courageous witnesses and martyrs of the early church.
This was the one belief that separated the followers of Jesus from the
Jews and turned them into the community of the resurrection. You could
imprison them, flog them, kill them, but you could not make them deny
their conviction that 'on the third day he rose again.' The resurrection
of Jesus Christ from the dead is the cornerstone of Christianity. Every
year thousands of enquirers examine the evidence for it and put their
faith in Jesus." \[George Eldon Ladd (1911-1982)\]

## Prayer

*"Father, draw me nearer to the cross that I might learn to die to self.
In doing so, with the breath of Thy Spirit, raise me up to live more for
Christ. To the cross I go to die. From the grave of sin and spiritual
death I arise with my Savior. Amen!"*

# March 22^nd^ 

***1 Thessalonians 4:14** --- For since we believe that Jesus died and
rose again, even so, through Jesus, God will bring with him those who
have fallen asleep.*

Those of us who believe that Jesus died and rose from the grave, also
believe that God will bring together the entire living community of
saints---those who are inhabiting heaven with those who remain alive on
earth. A great and magnificent reunion of the whole body of Christ. As
we believe in the death and resurrection of Christ, so we can be assured
of this gathering. Clothed in our new heavenly bodies, wearing a white
robe of righteousness. What a sight that will be.

This also means that those who have loved ones in Christ who have gone
on ahead of us to dwell in paradise will be reunited. It is because we
believe in the victory of Christ we have assurance of the resurrection
of the saints. Oh, what a day that will be! \[Pastor Jeff Beard\]

## Prayer

*"God of heaven and earth, You are bringing all things together in and
through Christ. While we, Your saints, await Your return, help us to
keep watch and keep alert. Help us to be sober minded lest our eyes
become charmed with the things of this world. Help us keep our hearts in
heaven while we do Your work here on earth. To the glory of Your Name.
Amen."***\
**

# March 23^rd^ 

***Isaiah 53:11--12** --- Out of the anguish of his soul he shall see
and be satisfied; by his knowledge shall the righteous one, my servant,
make many to be accounted righteous, and he shall bear their iniquities.
~12~ Therefore I will divide him a portion with the many, and he shall
divide the spoil with the strong, because he poured out his soul to
death and was numbered with the transgressors; yet he bore the sin of
many, and makes intercession for the transgressors.*

From C.S. Lewis, in his book, "Mere Christianity," he writes, "It costs
God nothing, so far as we know, to create nice things: but to convert
rebellious wills cost Him crucifixion."

Stop and dwell on this statement. To redeem His elect, He had to come
and die. This was not a mere physical death. A reference to the
crucifixion of Jesus Christ entails more than the physical pain and
death on a Roman cross. It was the place where the Son of God took the
wrath of God upon Himself. It is where He took upon Himself your wrath,
my wrath, the wrath of all who were to come to Him. The full cup of
judgement was poured upon Jesus Christ. That is what it costs to bring
us back to the bosom of the Father.

It is because He poured out his soul to death and was numbered with the
transgressors; because He bore the sin of many, and because He was our
sin substitute, we---the transgressors, are made righteous by Him.
\[Pastor Jeff Beard\]

## Prayer

*"Holy Father, my soul is crushed in sorrow at the cost of my
redemption. I am also full of thanksgiving that Jesus paid the price for
my salvation. I will use all of eternity to sing praises to Him for
bringing me home to You. Amen."***\
**

# March 24^th^ 

***John 13:31--32** --- When he had gone out, Jesus said, "Now is the
Son of Man glorified, and God is glorified in him. ~32~ If God is
glorified in him, God will also glorify him in himself, and glorify him
at once.*

The scene is Christ with His disciples with the last supper, only hours
before His betrayal and arrest. The verse above begins with Judas
Iscariot getting up and leaving the room. We know where he went.

"These verses show us what glory the crucifixion brought both to God the
Father and to God the Son. It seems impossible to avoid the conclusion
that this was what our Lord had in His mind when He said, 'Now is the
Son of man glorified, and God is glorified in Him.'---It is as though He
said, 'The time of my crucifixion is at hand. My work on earth is
finished. An event is about to take place to-morrow, which, however
painful to you who love Me, is in reality most glorifying both to Me and
My Father.'

The crucifixion brought glory to the Father. It glorified His wisdom,
faithfulness, holiness, and love. It showed Him wise, in providing a
plan whereby He could be just, and yet the Justifier of the
ungodly.---It showed Him faithful, in keeping His promise, that the seed
of the woman should bruise the serpent's head.---It showed Him holy, in
requiring His law's demands to be satisfied by our great
Substitute.---It showed Him loving, in providing such a Mediator, such a
Redeemer, and such a Friend for sinful man as His co-eternal Son."
\[J.C. Ryle (1816-1900)\]

## Prayer

*"Holy Father, as You were glorified then, may my life, living in
harmony in this new life, give you glory today. Amen."*

# March 25^th^ 

***John 13:31--32** --- When he had gone out, Jesus said, "Now is the
Son of Man glorified, and God is glorified in him. ~32~ If God is
glorified in him, God will also glorify him in himself, and glorify him
at once.*

"The crucifixion brought glory to the Son. It glorified His compassion,
His patience, and His power. It showed Him most compassionate, in dying
for us, suffering in our stead, allowing Himself to be counted sin and a
curse for us, and buying our redemption with the price of His own
blood.---It showed Him most patient, in not dying the common death of
most men, but in willingly submitting to such horrors and unknown
agonies as no mind can conceive, when with a word he could have summoned
His Father's angels, and been set free.---It showed Him most powerful,
in bearing the weight of all a world's transgressions, and vanquishing
Satan and despoiling him of his prey.

For ever let us cling to these thoughts about the crucifixion. Let us
remember that painting and sculpture can never tell a tenth part of what
took place on the cross. Crucifixes and pictures at best can only show
us a human being agonizing in a painful death. But of the length and
breadth and depth and height of the work transacted on the cross,---of
God's law honored, man's sins borne, sin punished in a Substitute, free
salvation bought for man,---of all this they can tell nothing. Yet all
this lies hid under the crucifixion. No wonder St. Paul cries, "God
forbid that I should glory, save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ."
\[J.C. Ryle (1816-1900)\]

## Prayer

*"Holy Savior, though it is beyond human capacity to know the depths of
my redemption, yet I hunger to see more."*

# March 26^th^ 

***Mark 10:32--34** --- And \... taking the twelve again, he began to
tell them what was to happen to him, ~33~ saying, "See, we are going up
to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be delivered over to the chief
priests and the scribes, and they will condemn him to death and deliver
him over to the Gentiles. ~34~ And they will mock him and spit on him,
and flog him and kill him. And after three days he will rise."*

Let us not forget the prophetic foretelling in Christ's words. He told
the disciples details of the future regarding what would happen to Him
in Jerusalem. His foretelling was in detail and in chronological order.
The disciples believed His words. They had come to know that whatever
the Master said was true and is truth. They so much believed what the
Master said would come to pass that they were "greatly distressed"
(Matt. 17:23) to hear what was to come of Him.

The last sentence from Jesus was the victory. The arrest, the mocking,
the physical torture, and then death on a cross, but that would not be
the end. Because he promised, "after three days he will rise."

We go through pain and sorrows in this life. But these are not the end.
As Jesus arose from sorrow and death, so He will raise us up one day to
heavenly life and joy. This life is the moon. The life to come is the
sun. This life is a shadow compared to the one to come. Be as convinced
of the truthfulness of Jesus' words as the disciples were on that road
to Jerusalem. \[Pastor Jeff Beard\]

## Prayer

*"Great and Wonderful is the God of life. Praise Him, Praise Him. Help
me to keep my heart on that which is to come."*

# March 27^th^ 

***John 20:19** --- On the evening of that day, the first day of the
week, the doors being locked where the disciples were for fear of the
Jews, Jesus came and stood among them and said to them, "Peace be with
you."*

"Very touching and humbling was the Lord's gracious salutation. Peter
had denied Him, and the others had forsaken Him. How, then, does He
approach them? Does He demand an explanation of their conduct? Does He
tell them that all is now over, that henceforth He will have no more to
do with such unfaithful followers? No, indeed. Well might He have said,
'Shame upon you!' But, instead He says, 'Peace be unto you.' He would
remove from their hearts all fear which His sudden and unannounced
appearance might have occasioned. He would quiet each uneasy conscience.
Having put away their sins He could now remove their fears. Be not
afraid: I come not as judge, to reckon with your perfidy and unbelief;
nor do I enter as One who has been injured by you, to utter reproaches.
No; I bring from My sepulcher something very different from upbraidings:
'Peace be unto you' was the blessed greeting of the Prince of peace, and
none but He can speak peace to any. ... So will it be when we meet Him
face to face---we, with all our miserable failures, both individual and
corporate; we with all our sins of omission and commission; we, with all
our bitter controversies, and deplorable divisions. Not 'Shame! shame!'
but 'Peace! peace!' will be His greeting." \[A.W. Pink (1886-1952)\]

## Prayer

*"Jesus, Your love for us is immeasurable, incomprehensible, and
unending. I am anxious for the day that I will see you face-to-face.
Your peace, love, and glory will surely over take me."*

# March 28^th^ 

***Matthew 28:1--7** --- Now after the Sabbath, toward the dawn of the
first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary went to see the
tomb. ~2~ And behold, there was a great earthquake, for an angel of the
Lord descended from heaven and came and rolled back the stone and sat on
it. ~3~ His appearance was like lightning, and his clothing white as
snow. ~4~ And for fear of him the guards trembled and became like dead
men. ~5~ But the angel said to the women, "Do not be afraid, for I know
that you seek Jesus who was crucified. ~6~ He is not here, for he has
risen, as he said. Come, see the place where he lay. ~7~ Then go quickly
and tell his disciples that he has risen from the dead, and behold, he
is going before you to Galilee; there you will see him. See, I have told
you."*

" 'As he said.' A few words, but what a world of meaning! 'As he said.'
He always does 'as he said.' He always gives 'as he said.' He always
reveals himself 'as he said;' not otherwise. He never fails to fulfil a
promise, or forgets even the mode of promising; not only does he do what
he said, but as he said: 'He is risen, as he said.' \[Charles H.
Spurgeon (1834-1892)\]

## Prayer

*"Jesus, Your promises are always sure. Not one word falls to the
ground, but all of Your promises fly from heaven to fulfillment. By Thy
Spirit let me see them and receive them as gifts of Your grace. Amen."*

**\
**

# March 29^th^ 

***Matthew 28:6** --- He is not here, for he has risen, as he said.
Come, see the place where he lay.*

"And does not this truth, that Christ is not here, but is gone, fall
upon our ears with a sweet force as it constrains us to feel that this
is the reason why our heart should not be here? 'He is not here:' then
our heart should not be here. When this text, 'He is not here,' was
first spoken, it meant that he was not in the grave. He was somewhere on
earth then. But now he is not here at all. Suppose you are very rich,
and Satan whispers to you, 'These are delightful gardens; this is a
noble mansion; take thine ease:'---reply to him, 'But he is not here; he
is not here, he is risen; therefore I dare not put my heart where my
Lord is not.' ... Nowhere on earth is Christ, and therefore nowhere on
earth may our heart build her nest. Nowhere,---no, not in the high
places, or in the quiet resting places; not in the garden of nuts, or in
the beds of spices; not in the tents of Kedar, or between Solomon's
curtains; not even at his sacramental table, nor yet amongst the means
of grace, is Christ bodily, actually, present. So we will take the
sweetness of all, and the spiritual good there may be in all outward
means; but still they shall all point us upward; they shall all draw us
away. As the sun exhales the dew, and attracts it upward towards heaven,
so shall Christ magnetize and draw our hearts away, and our thoughts up,
and our longings up, and our whole spirits up, towards himself! "He is
not here." Then why should I be here?"

*Oh, get thee up, my soul; get thee up, and let all thy sweetest incense
go towards him who "is not here, for he is risen."\
*\[Charles H. Spurgeon (1834-1892)\]

# March 30^th^ 

***Acts 2:22--24** --- Men of Israel, hear these words: Jesus of
Nazareth, a man attested to you by God with mighty works and wonders and
signs that God did through him in your midst, as you yourselves know---
~23~ this Jesus, delivered up according to the definite plan and
foreknowledge of God, you crucified and killed by the hands of lawless
men. ~24~ God raised him up, loosing the pangs of death, because it was
not possible for him to be held by it.*

"Why did the apostles stress the resurrection in particular? First of
all, it is the resurrection that finally proves who our Lord is. It is
the resurrection that finally establishes the point that this Jesus whom
the Jewish leaders had despised---Jesus the carpenter, this fellow, this
man who had learning, never having learned, this imposter, this
blasphemer, this one who claimed equality with God---really was all He
claimed to be. It is the final proof that He is none other than God's
only begotten Son, the eternal Son of God; that though He was a man, He
was not only a man.

"Ah," you say, "but what about the case of Lazarus? Didn't he also rise
from the dead?" Lazarus was merely restored to life, and he died again
later on. Our Lord, by contrast, is "the first begotten of \[from\] the
dead" (Rev. 1:5). He is the first person ever to have gone through death
and come out the other side alive. And that is the proof of the fact
that He is the Son of God. \[Dr. Martyn Lloyd-Jones (1899-1981)\]

## Prayer

*"Father of Truth, You have revealed and convinced my heart of the
resurrection of Christ. Therefore, my heart rejoices and I am filled
with hope in the final resurrection. Amen."\
*

# March 31^st^ 

***Romans 5:8*** *--- but God shows his love for us in that while we
were still sinners, Christ died for us.*

"Alas, and did my Savior bleed, And did my Sov'reign die? Would He
devote that sacred head, For such a worm as I?

Was it for crimes that I had done, He groaned upon the tree? Amazing
pity, grace unknown, And love beyond degree!

Well might the sun in darkness hide, And shut his glories in, When
Christ the mighty Maker died, For man, the creature's sin.

Thus might I hide my blushing face, While Calvary's cross appears,\
Dissolve my heart in thankfulness, And melt mine eyes to tears.

But drops of grief can ne'er repay, The debt of love I owe;\
Here, Lord, I give myself away, 'Tis all that I can do.

At the cross, at the cross where I first saw the light, And the burden
of my heart rolled away.

It was there by faith I received my sight, And now I am happy all the
day!" \[Isaac Watts (1674-1748)\]

## Prayer

*"O Blessed Father of all saints, may Thy Spirit help me to keep my
heart fixed on the cross. There my Savior died for me, and there I died
to have Him. Although He is risen, and I am risen with Him, I do not
want to forget for one moment what my Savior did for me. It was At The
Cross. Amen."*

*\
*

#  April 1^st^ 

***John 17:6** --- "I have manifested your name to the people whom you
gave me out of the world. Yours they were, and you gave them to me, and
they have kept your word.*

The above is from Jesus' prayer to the Father. Below is from a sermon by
the Puritan Pastor, Thomas Manton.

"Observe again, that none are given to Christ but those that were first
the Father's: 'Thine they were;' he had chosen them in the purposes of
his grace, and disposed them into Christ's hands. The acts of the three
persons are commensurable, of the same sphere and latitude; those whom
the Father chooseth, the Son redeemeth, and the Spirit sanctifieth. The
Father loveth none but those that are given to Christ, and Christ taketh
charge of none but those that are loved of the Father. Your election
will be known by your interest in Christ, and your interest in Christ by
the sanctification of the Spirit. All God's flock are put into Christ's
hands, and Christ leaveth them to the care of the Spirit, that they may
be enlightened and sanctified. In looking after the comfort of election,
you must first look inward to the work of the Spirit on your hearts,
then outward to the work of Christ on the cross, then upward to the
heart of the Father in heaven: 1 Peter 1:2, 'Elect according to the
foreknowledge of God the Father, through sanctification of the Spirit,
unto obedience, and sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ. There is a
chain of salvation; the beginning is from the Father, the dispensation
through the Son, the application by the Spirit; all cometh from God, and
is conveyed to us through Christ, by the Spirit." \[Thomas Manton
(1620-1677)\]

## Prayer

*"Holy Trinity, You have saved us! The Three in One! Amen!"***\
**

# April 2^nd^ 

***Luke 23:34** --- And Jesus said, "Father, forgive them, for they know
not what they do."*

"Father, forgive them." On no previous occasion did Christ make such a
request of the Father. Never before had he invoked the Father's
forgiveness of others. Hitherto he forgave himself. To the man sick of
the palsy he had said, "Son, be of good cheer; thy sins be forgiven
thee" (Matthew 9:2). To the woman who washed his feet with her tears in
the house of Simon, he said, "Thy sins are forgiven" (Luke 7:48). Why
then should he now ask the Father to forgive, instead of directly
pronouncing forgiveness himself?

Forgiveness of sin is a divine prerogative. The Jewish scribes were
right when they reasoned "Who can forgive sins but God only?" (Mark
2:7). But you say, Christ was God. Truly; but man also---the God-man. He
was the Son of God that had become the Son of Man with the express
purpose of offering himself as a sacrifice for sin. And when the Lord
Jesus cried "Father, forgive them" he was on the cross, and there he
might not exercise his divine prerogatives. Moreover, on the cross he
was acting as our substitute; the just was about to die for the unjust.
Thus we say that when the blessed Lord Jesus cried, "Father, forgive
them," we see him absolutely identified with his people. No longer was
he in the position where he had the "power" or "right" to forgive sins;
instead, he intercedes for sinners---as we must." \[A.W. Pink
(1886-1952)\]

## Prayer

*"Christ, Savior, Your mercy and compassion has no end. Teach us how to
love the sinner as You do. Teach us how to intercede to the Father on
behalf of those who hurt us. Cause Your love to mature in me that I may
love as You have loved me. Amen."***\
**

# April 3^rd^ 

***John 19:26--27** --- When Jesus saw his mother and the disciple whom
he loved standing nearby, he said to his mother, "Woman, behold, your
son!" ~27~ Then he said to the disciple, "Behold, your mother!" And from
that hour the disciple took her to his own home.*

"The Lord Jesus was dying as the Savior for sinners. He was engaged in
the most momentous and the most stupendous undertaking that this earth
ever has or ever will witness. He was on the point of offering
satisfaction to the outraged justice of God. He was just about to do
that work for which the world had been made, for which the human race
had been created, for which all the ages had waited, and for which he,
the eternal Word, had become incarnate. Nevertheless, he does not
overlook the responsibilities of natural ties; he fails not to make
provision for her who, according to the flesh, was his mother.

There is a lesson here which many need to take to heart in these days.
No duty, no work, however important it may be, can excuse us from
discharging the obligations of nature, from caring for those who have
fleshly claims upon us." \[A.W. Pink (1886-1952)\]

## Prayer

*"Father God, give me a clear mind to see the responsibilities that are
before me. May I never forget or neglect to care for those who have
fleshly claims on me. Nor may I neglect my brothers and sisters in
Christ who are in need and I have the means to help. When the selfish
sin nature rises up to resist the love of Christ within my heart, give
me the grace to slay such selfishness and open my heart as Christ did
for me. Amen."***\
**

# April 4^th^ 

***Luke 22:44** --- And being in agony he prayed more earnestly; and his
sweat became like great drops of blood falling down to the ground.*

"Hence we may learn how dreadful Christ's last sufferings were. We learn
it from the dreadful effect which the bare foresight of them had upon
him in his agony. His last sufferings were so dreadful, that the view
which Christ had of them before overwhelmed him and amazed him, as it is
said he began to be sore amazed. The very sight of these last sufferings
was so very dreadful as to sink his soul down into the dark shadow of
death; yea, so dreadful was it, that in the sore conflict which his
nature had with it, he was all in a sweat of blood, his body all over
was covered with clotted blood, and not only his body, but the very
ground under him with the blood that fell from him, which had been
forced through his pores through the violence of his agony. And if only
the foresight of the cup was so dreadful, how dreadful was the cup
itself, how far beyond all that can be uttered or conceived! And what
has been said affords a convincing argument that the sufferings which
Christ endured in his body on the cross, though they were very dreadful,
were yet the least part of his last sufferings; and that beside those,
he endured sufferings in his soul which were vastly greater. For if it
had been only the sufferings which he endured in his body, though they
were very dreadful, we cannot conceive that the mere anticipation of
them would have such an effect on Christ. From what has been said, we
may see the wonderful strength of the love of Christ to sinners."
\[Jonathan Edwards (1703-1758)\]

## Prayer

*"O Lord, my cup of wrath You did drink. Bless be Thy Name."*

# April 5^th^ 

***Luke 22:44** --- And being in agony he prayed more earnestly; and his
sweat became like great drops of blood falling down to the ground.*

"The death of Christ on the cross, it was a bitter death, a sorrowful
death, a bloody death. The bitter thoughts of his sufferings put him
into a most dreadful agony: Luke 22:44, 'Being in an agony, he prayed
more earnestly, and his sweat was as great drops of blood falling to the
ground.' The Greek word that is here used, Ἀγωνία, signifies a striving
or wrestling against, as two combatants or wrestlers do strive each
against other. The things which our Savior strove against was not only
the terror of death, as other men are wont to do---for then many
Christians and martyrs might have seemed more constant and courageous
than he---but with the terrible justice of God, pouring out his high
anger and indignation upon him on the account of all the sins of his
chosen that were laid upon him, than which nothing could be more
dreadful, Isa. 53:4--6. Christ was in a vehement conflict in his soul,
through the deepest sense of his Father's wrath against sinners, for
whom he now stood as a surety and Redeemer. And for a close of this
particular, let me say that God's justice which we have provoked, being
fully satisfied by the inestimable merit of Christ's passion, is the
surest and highest ground of consolation that we have in this world;"
\[Thomas Brooks (1608-1680)\]

## Prayer

*"Father, You and I know that I cannot grasp how great the evil that my
sin must have been before You when Christ bore it on the cross. It was
so dreadful, dark, and evil that only the Son of Man could bare its
judgement. Again, I am speechless."*

#  April 6^th^ 

***Luke 23:39--43** --- One of the criminals who were hanged railed at
him, saying, "Are you not the Christ? Save yourself and us!" ~40~ But
the other rebuked him, saying, "Do you not fear God, since you are under
the same sentence of condemnation? ~41~ And we indeed justly, for we are
receiving the due reward of our deeds; but this man has done nothing
wrong." ~42~ And he said, "Jesus, remember me when you come into your
kingdom." ~43~ And he said to him, "Truly, I say to you, today you will
be with me in paradise."*

The crosses were only a few feet apart and it did not take the Savior
long to hear this cry of the penitent thief. What was his response
thereto? He might have said, You deserve your fate: you are a wicked
robber and have merited death. Or, he might have replied, You have left
it till too late; you should have sought me sooner. Ah! but had he not
promised, "Him that cometh to me! will in no wise cast out!" So it
proved here.

The salvation of the repentant and believing robber illustrates not only
Christ's readiness but also his power to save sinners. The Lord Jesus is
no feeble Savior. Blessed be God he is able to "save unto the uttermost"
them that come unto God by him. And never was this so signally displayed
as when on the cross. This was the time of the Redeemer's "weakness" (2
Cor. 13:4). When the thief cried, "Lord, remember me," the Savior was in
agony on the accursed tree. Yet even then, even there, he had power to
redeem this soul from death and open for him the gates of Paradise!
Never doubt then, or question the infinite sufficiency of the Savior.
\[A.W. Pink (1886-1952)\]

## Prayer

*"Christ, I will never doubt Your willingness or power to save."*

# April 7^th^ 

***Matthew 28:6** --- He is not here, for he has risen, as he said.
Come, see the place where he lay.*

"Why should we see it?

Well, first, that we may see how condescending he was that ever he
should lay in the grave. He that made heaven and earth, lay in the
grave. He who gave light to angels' eyes, lay in the darkness three
days. He slept in the darkness there. He without whom was not anything
made that was made, was given up to death, and lay a victim of death
there. Oh, wonder of wonders! Marvel of marvels! He, who had immortality
and life within himself, yields himself up to the place of death!

"Come, see the place where the Lord lay," in the next place, to see how
we ought to weep over the sin that laid him there. Did I make the Savior
lie in the grave? Was it needful that before my sin could be put away,
my sweet Prince, whose beauties enchant all heaven, must be chill and
cold in death, and actually be laid in the tomb? Must it be so? O ye
murderous sins! Ye murderous sins! Ye cruel and cursed sins! Did ye slay
my Savior? Did ye find out that tender heart? Could ye never be content
until you had led him to his death, and laid him there? Oh, come and
weep, as you see the place where the Lord lay." \[Charles H. Spurgeon
(1834-1892)\]

## Prayer

*"Spirit of Christ, open the eyes of my heart to see where my Savior
laid. Speak to my heart\--my mind, emotions, and will that I would be
wholly fixed on what my Savior did to save me unto Himself. Show me
until my heart is humbled in tears of both heartbreak sorrow and of joy.
Amen."*

# April 8^th^ 

***Ephesians 4:8--10** --- Therefore it says, "When he ascended on high
he led a host of captives, and he gave gifts to men." ~9~ (In saying,
"He ascended," what does it mean but that he had also descended into the
lower regions, the earth? ~10~ He who descended is the one who also
ascended far above all the heavens, that he might fill all things.)*

The following is a prayer from the book, [The Valley of
Vision]{.underline}, from The Banner of Truth Trust.

"Adorable Redeemer, thou who wast lifted up upon a cross art ascended to
highest heaven.

Thou, who as Man of Sorrows, wast crowned with thorns, art now as Lord
of life wreathed with glory.

Once, no shame more deep than thine, no agony more bitter, no death more
cruel. Now, no exaltation more high, no life more glorious, no advocate
more effective.

Thou art in the triumph car leading captive thine enemies behind three.

Jesus strides forth as the victor, conqueror of death, hell, and all
opposing might; He bursts the bands of death, tramples the powers of
darkness down, and lives forever.

What more could be done than thou has done! Thy death is my life, thy
resurrection my peace, thy ascension my hope, thy prayers my comfort.

Give me the Assurance that in Christ I died, in him I rose, in his life
I live, in his victory I triumph, in his ascension I shall be gloried."

# April 9^th^ 

***Luke 24:1--9 (ESV**) --- 1 But on the first day of the week, at early
dawn, they went to the tomb, taking the spices they had prepared. ~2~
And they found the stone rolled away from the tomb, ~3~ but when they
went in they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus. ~4~ While they
were perplexed about this, behold, two men stood by them in dazzling
apparel. ~5~ And as they were frightened and bowed their faces to the
ground, the men said to them, "Why do you seek the living among the
dead? ~6~ He is not here, but has risen. Remember how he told you, while
he was still in Galilee, ~7~ that the Son of Man must be delivered into
the hands of sinful men and be crucified and on the third day rise." ~8~
And they remembered his words, ~9~ and returning from the tomb they told
all these things to the eleven and to all the rest.*

"It is a bold thing to speak of God as moved by joy or affected by
grief; but still, since he is no God of wood and stone, no insensible
block, we may, speaking after the manner of men, declare that God
rejoiced over his risen Son with exceeding joy, while the Son rejoiced
also because his great work was accomplished. Remembering that passage
in the prophet, where God speaks of his saints, and declares that he
will rejoice over them with singing, what if I say that much more he did
this with his SON, and, resting in his love, he rejoiced over the risen
one even with joy and singing. \[Charles H. Spurgeon (1834-1892)\]

## Prayer

*"O God, my God, You are the Victor, and You have drawn me into Your
victory to share in Thy spoils! Praises! Amen!"*
